The next is the next of the pure appearance and the premodial wisdom, the premodial pure expenses
of some of the body, the spontaneous air complex trigger of the zocchim, the sharp weather of the
awareness tantra, the contents of the great sacred mandrayanas, mandrayanas, so those are the four
titles.
So according to the linear masters, when they go through this and what they say, always divide at
least three portions of this teaching into three.
First and second and third also. The first is title. Second is the principle of the text in the
teaching. Third is the concluding or the colorful.
You also ask for this teaching has that too. I mean all those. And so first is the title.
And the title is actually, without teaching or those great masters often say it's so important
because it really has captured the essence meaning of the entire text or the teaching itself.
So therefore, it is so important. At the same time, it is important to discover and to connect to
this teaching and to obtain this book quickly knowing the titles and all these reasons.
So now we go with this meaning of the titles. So now what is said here, this teaching, if I look at
our view, the overview of the bird's eye of this title,
and as I said, there is also this commentary by well-known scholar Alan Wallace. I'm sure you read
that already there.
But I'll go over this as this. So where does this teaching come from? This teaching comes from the
"ness of the pure awareness."
Pure awareness, primordial wisdom. That is the source of these teachings. What came from there?
Then it came the primordial pure expression of the summoner's body and the spontaneous air-confront
al material of the looking.
And then what is that teaching is what? That is the shout whether of the awareness mantra.
And that is the essence of all the tantra teachings. That's what the principal is explaining.
Or the principal or the essence of the meaning. Now we go to the pure ever-translated, SI-trans
lated evidence from the nets of the pure vision or pure appearance and the wisdom.
So that is the pure vision. So in the Tibetan first, it's called pure vision. So now, as I said
yesterday, I said it's true. At least I'm comparing it to myself.
It's not true. Because this pure vision is not just this time, this pure vision is not just
occasionally arising appearance or the vision.
It's not that delusion also is pure. Pure vision is also not delusions. It's not toxic-headed.
Toxic-headed vision or it's causing some certain things and we have some different visions or
different hearings.
This vision is also not just only vision by eyesight. It's all the object of the five senses or the
six senses.
What are the five senses or six senses? The eye, ear, nose, tongue, body and the sixth is mind.
So the vision of the sixth senses is pure. Pure means what? As I said already, it's not toxic-
headed, not delusion, pure or temporary vision.
It is pure, preformed dualities. Preformed dualities. That this vision or this appearance is
appearance of the Buddha.
Of great bodies that appear is always pure. Always pure because their inner obscuration is played
with it.
Therefore, their senses are verbatim status, not deluded, obscured duality senses as we do at.
It's pure, completely. That's the teaching also, for example.
If we have this completely clear way our duality is, this universe where we are now is pure then.
This very is really pure then. That is something pure then you have to go, "Ah, great."
And what the great Master and King said, "The moment you purify or we purify our duality, right
that moment heaven is here, opulent is here."
And again, this is one of the last teachings, or maybe last phrase, when a student said that, in
him or in the teaching said,
"The beautiful, pure range, beautiful, comfortable, pure vision is right here." Really? Only the
duality one.
This is, again, in the Buddha teaching said too. I mean, of course, in the old Buddha teaching,
there's many throughout them, but in the Buddha teaching,
during the time of the great teacher, Buddha Shatyamuni is giving the teachings.
At that time, this one Bodhisattva came, known as Shungmu Rabatyate. Shungmu Rabatyate Bodhisattva
came for the other building of other realms, the universe,
to receive the teaching directly from Buddha Shatyamuni and to see and stay in his presence, his
presence with Buddha Shatyamuni's presence.
So when this great Bodhisattva came, Shari Buddha asked, "How is yoke that land? It's beautiful or
how it is? It's similar like here?"
He said, and Shungmu Rabatyate answered, "My place is completely pure. Pure, everything is from
silicon, enlightened status.
There's no difficulty challenging the tapas at all, is it? Is it?"
Then Shari Buddha answered, "My, it's my pure land, our pure land of the Buddha Hekamuni is not
like that, like this.
There's so many difficulty challenging the tapas and also the earth, the land are not completely
kind of so nice and soothing things.
There's so many ruins, so many thorns and so many dirt, all these things they say there."
Then Shungmu Rabatyate asked, "No, your pure land is so beautiful, perfectly. It's the same as
where I come from, the beautiful pure land."
So now it's really completely, directly against the Shari Buddha's statement with these new
visitors.
From the aliens, maybe we call these aliens. So this alien statement, he said that.
So now what happened? Then Shari Buddha said, "To gracious Buddha, is this true? Our pure land is
pure like that, what he's saying is true?"
And Buddha immediately, magical person forward, he opened in the door, door in the window to see
the other universe, other pure lands, and far away.
And also all the land is pure, that land is so pure and so beautiful, so soothing and so nice and
like that.
And then Buddha said to the audience of the students, and he included Shari Buddha, "Can you see
that?"
They said, "Yes, great Lord, great Master, I quickly can see that."
He said, "My pure land, where I am, is the same, same, no difference, except where we are."
Or those people who are here, in pure, they all have duality, or you have duality cataracts,
because you don't see them.
So this is really what he called in the teaching, reality is pure, everything.
For that reason, in the Dzogin Tantal or the Megha Tantalism, what is it? We always heard that in
the teaching.
Five aggregates are enlightened. Five aggregates. This means not just five aggregates, but the
Buddha's five aggregates.
Our five aggregates, our form is enlightened. Our feeling aggregate is enlightened.
Our perception aggregate is enlightened. Our conception aggregate is enlightened.
Our consciousness is enlightened. And then, what is it? All five elements are enlightened.
In that same mind, or in the same chapter, five elements. So that means sky is enlightened.
Earth is enlightened. And wind or fire is enlightened. Water is enlightened. And wind is
enlightened.
They are five female Buddha, those are the teachings. Five aggregates are five male Buddha.
Five elements are five female Buddhas. Our senses and octave senses, our bodies are four male and
female.
So this is not just talking or joking, or only that certain group is reserved with that realization
or that understanding.
No! Reality and everything is enlightened.
One in the Dzogin Tantal teaching or Megha Tantal teaching said, even Buddha is looking, something
is not pure, but not fine.
There is nothing to you, it's impure. Everything is enlightened.
So this is what, for that reason, in Dzogin Tantal, called the Jyut Lamma, is a subtle teaching.
What is the essence or conventional teachings of the Dathangabha teachings, teachings that Buddha
taught in that material.
Material, known as Jyut Lamma, or in the Dharat Tantal, in Sanskrit, or in Supreme Tantra, which is
not exactly Tantra, but is the teachings on the Dathangabha, so is Tantra, called Tantra.
And that teaching said, how that is said is, for example, how our perception is, our perception.
Impure perception, impure perception, and mixed perception, that means pure and impure mixed
perception and very pure perceptions, perfect perceptions.
Who they are, and the teaching said, the impure perception we sent in Binsa has impure perceptions.
We all, because we are deluded. We have the impure perceptions.
That means our mind is deluded, therefore our object is deluded. Subject and object, you see, all
deluded.
Then mixture, pure and impure perception, who has the body cells.
Because they are process of the cleanings, all very kind of obscurations, duality mind.
So therefore, they have another kind of more elevated, more different perceptions than us.
And then pure perception, that means ultimate perception as it is our, that is Buddha's.
That's why when we visualize the deities, for example, visualization, it's powerful methods,
instantly connected to the ordinary pure state of where things are, called visualization.
Even though it's mentally kind of like fabricated things, teachings, but reality is lined up to the
exactly, so therefore it's a skillful means.
What is the visualization we do? We visualize our body, it's a Buddha.
Not just a body, that means our feelings and senses, and perception, conceptual, all is in the
Buddha state.
Buddha's state, not body has become singled out, and then our, I'm going to get, the only body is
kind of enlightened,
and the rest, just left as we, no, we left that baggage outside somewhere.
So we take whole baggage together, whole wire again put together, and become enlightened.
This is the reality situation, according to teaching. It's not just, we're making up.
Why we, this is what we don't see, because we wandered from the duality, we carried the force of
the duality that we created,
and carried away for a long time. Now we're returning back to the old and the home best,
by the teaching of the great teacher, Buddha Hekta Muni, and as well as all these great master's
teachers, we're returning back.
How wonderful, how awesome, how uplifting, I'm not kidding, you're not just, I'm saying the whole
thing.
But you really think carefully, very precious, very beautiful.
Really, we've got the rarest, the rarest precious opportunities, that we are really surrounded, we
are saturated.
How lucky, how fortunate we are. So this is what really, only like that.
And then we visualize the Buddha, we visualize, then we'll say, the entire universe is transformed,
the pure land of that Buddha.
The universe, not transformed, it arises there, it's not just something there.
For our kind of way of thinking, it looks like it starts forming, but it arises now,
the way the nature's beauty shines up, shines, it's so beautiful, so nice.
That's what it really is. So this is called pure vision.
When you have that pure vision, or pure appearance, realization, then what is that?
Is, versatile. That is versatile.
This wisdom is also not the wisdom of the dualities in the world, what we call the intelligence of
wisdom.
We have that too. But this time, wisdom has no dualities.
No dualities, wisdom. It's wisdom free from the dualities.
Perfect enlightenment. That is the wisdom.
And that is the, those enlightenment, wisdom, that is enlightenment, that's the environment, is in
that status.
When that appears, how that appears, not solid, not conquered, conquered, that is duality.
The nature is, according to the teaching, so flexible, so open, so mellow, there's no restrictions.
Can be anything, can be fire, can be water, if I use the gross example, water can be fire.
Fire can be water or wind, in all that mellow, flexible.
It's so flexible, because of that flexible nature, even modern scientists think, discover those
things.
We use those technologies, and stay here, right here, and talk to the other side of the conference,
other side of the world, and going in the sky, and all these things.
Nature is flexible, that we, because of the skills and methodism, reading, we are taking advantage.
Nature is so flexible, that's why we are here, we said, "Nats, nets, isn't that?"
That means, this wisdom and view of perception, view of realization, it's totally mango.
Totally, it's a union, if I use, for inseparable status.
And if I say, also another way, I can't, to simplify it, another way I explain, this view of
imagination, view of appearance is compassion, great compassion.
And the wisdom is blessings, and the union of that is net.
Union of the wisdom and compassion arise these teachings.
It's all teachings.
This compassion is also not just compassion or ritual.
It's compassion, no dualities.
Those two compassion are what?
Because compassion has no attachment.
Pervasive compassion. Pervasive wisdom. And that is what? Yeah, worship.
Then those worship can be divided, or divided with those worship.
So this is what really, this is the source of that.
So that indicate, the great master, Duryu Gumpa, is already in that great enlightened status.
That great enlightened status.
From that, then these teachings arise, this teaching, teaching of this one.
And that's what I said here.
And here, three different, I will talk this first three, kind of highlight that.
And this is from that net, or from that net.